In the fifteenth tale of the Tutinama (Tales of a Parrot), our scene starts with
our narrator – a very cheeky talking parrot. In our overarching narrative, he tells our primary
female character, Khhojasta, a story. It is his tactic to keep her from having an
illicit affair on her husband while he’s slaving away at work. The story?
A lesson about four rich men who became poor. These four men approach a wise philosopher
on their conquest for riches. He advises them that if they are to find
their fortunes, they must place a ball upon their heads and watch for where
it falls off – as that is where they will need to dig for their prize.
These four friends set on their adventure, beginning to hunt and dig.
The first man finds copper. The second? A mine of silver.
And the third discovers a mine of gold.  It is along their journey to wealth
that the first two men asked their remaining friends to share their finding, but they
are denied, as the last two men wanted to pursue more riches.
However, the third man asks the fourth man if he'd like to enjoy the gold
he’d found with him. To his dismay, the fourth man declines in pursuit of a
mine of jewels. An act of greed at it’s finest! Thus, the fourth man set
out on his own mission to achieve ultimate wealth and fortune. Searching and searching, the
ball falls off the fourth man’s head, marking the spot of his hopeful fortune.
He digs and digs, becoming more excited with each time the shovel hits the ground.
Surely he was going to find a mine full of rubies, diamonds, and stunning jewels.
As he reaches the bottom, to his dismay, the fourth man only finds a mine
of iron. Disappointed in his lack of wealth, he returns to the spot where his
friend found his gold mine. Only to be utterly shocked! Both his friend and the
gold mine were gone! Feeling disheveled, he returns to his iron mine with regret and
sourness in his heart… Yet, as he returns he discovers that his iron mine has
disappeared too! Sulking and sad, he goes to return to find the philosopher… His journey
back was ridden with guilt, as he lost his friends to the monster of pride
and greed. Each step closer to the philosopher, he felt more hopeless. Unfortunately… his unlucky
streak persists as he finds the philosopher vanished as well! When the fourth man had
realized his utter fate, he lamented his choices – learning the lesson that nothing good comes from greed.
Alas, we return to the parrot as our story closes… Only to find that he
succeeds in keeping Khojasta entertained long enough that she misses her meeting with her lover.